Add new page on multi DC ACLs (#12020)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/security/acl/acl-multiple-datacenters.mdx

acl = {
 enabled =  true
 default_policy = "deny"
 down_policy = "deny"
 enable_token_persistence = true
 enable_token_replication = true
 tokens = {
   initial_management =  "ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN"
   agent = "YOUR_ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
  }
}

```

```json
{
  "bootstrap_expect": N,
  "primary_datacenter": "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_VALUE",
  "acl": {
    "enabled": true,
    "default_policy": "deny",
    "down_policy": "deny",
    "enable_token_persistence": true,
    "enable_token_replication": true,
    "tokens": {
      "initial_management": "ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN",
      "agent": "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

~> **Warning:** Note that most enterprise deployments have security requirements that prevent specifying tokens in configuration files.
The `enable_token_persistence` flag is also set in the configuration example so that the token is stored to disk in the agent's
`data` directory. Any future changes to the token that are made through the [API](/api/agent#update-acl-tokens) will
be persisted to the same location, and the value in the config file will be ignored.

The ACL agent token can also be set using the CLI as shown below.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

as shown in the following example. Secondary data centers also need the ACL replication token
provided to them.

### Create the replication token for ACL Management

Replication tokens are needed for ACL token replication and
to create both [local tokens](/api/acl/tokens#local) and [auth methods](/docs/acl/auth-methods)
in connected secondary datacenters.

Replication tokens require the following permissions:

- `acl = "write"`: The permission allows you to replicate tokens.
- `operator = "write"`: This permission enables the `proxy-default` configuration entries to be replicated and enables CA certificate signing in the secondary datacenter.
- `policy = "read"` and `intentions = "read"` in the `service_prefix` field: These permissions enable `service-default` configuration entries, CA, and intention data to be replicated.

<CodeTabs heading="Replication Token Policy">

<CodeBlockConfig filename="replication-policy.hcl">

```hcl
acl = "write"
operator = "write"
service_prefix "" {
  policy = "read"
  intentions = "read"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>

Create a replication policy with the following command:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

$ consul acl policy create -name replication -rules @replication-policy.hcl
```

Use your newly created policy to create the replication token.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

```

### Configure the replication token in Secondary Datacenters

Add the replication token generated above, to the ACL stanza in secondary datacenters.

<CodeTabs heading = "ACL Configuration in Secondaries">

```hcl
primary_datacenter = "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_NAME"
acl = {
   enabled = true
   default_policy =  "deny"
   down_policy =  "deny"
   tokens = {
      agent =  "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
      replication = "ACL_REPLICATION_TOKEN"
   }
}
```

```json
{
  "primary_datacenter": "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_VALUE",
  "acl": {
    "enabled": true,
    "default_policy": "deny",
    "down_policy": "deny",
    "tokens": {
      "agent": "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

~> **Warning:** When enabling ACL token replication in secondary datacenters,
global tokens already present in the secondary datacenter will be lost. For
production environments, consider configuring ACL replication in your initial
datacenter bootstrapping process.

## WAN Join Servers

This step is needed for new federated cluster deployments in order for
servers in each federated datacenter to discover each other.

Run the following command from one of the server nodes.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

$ consul join -token="ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN" -wan [server 1, server 2, ...]
```

## Configure Clients in Secondary Datacenters

When ACLs are enabled, client agents need a special token known as the `agent token` for ACL-related operations. Agent tokens need to have the right policies for node related actions, including
registering itself in the catalog, updating node level health checks, and having write access on its
agent configuration file.

### Generate Agent ACL Token

[ACL Node Identities](https://www.consul.io/docs/security/acl/acl-system#acl-node-identities) were introduced
in Consul 1.8.1 and enable creating agent tokens with appropriately scoped policies easily.

To generate the ACL token using node identity, run the following command:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell-session
```

---
layout: docs

> page_title: ACL in Multiple Datacenters

Author: Done

description: >-
  When Consul ACLs are enabled in multiple datacenters that are federated together,
  specific bootstrapping of ACLs and policies are needed
---

# ACLs in Federated Datacenters

This topic describes how to set up Consul's access control list (ACL) system
in cluster deployments that span multiple data centers. This documentation is applicable
to new clusters rather than existing clusters.

> -> **1.4.0 and later:** This guide only applies in Consul versions 1.4.0 and later.

Author: happy to follow whatever convention we have for new things, will fix this one. Can you point me to an example with the requirements called out? Does it highlight them like the callouts do?

> -> **1.4.0 and later:** This guide only applies in Consul versions 1.4.0 and later.

Reviewer: @preetapan here is an [example](https://www.consul.io/docs/connect/config-entries/exported-services#requirements)

## Configure ACLs in the Primary Datacenter

> In a federated Consul deployment, one of the datacenters is marked as the primary datacenter.

Reviewer 2: Would it be clear to a new user what we mean by "federated deployment"? Should we provide a quick definition or is it reasonable to expect that they understand what we mean if they've navigated to this page?

as shown in the following example.

See the [ACL Config Stanza](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/options#acl) for more detailed descriptions of each option.

-> **Versions before 1.11.0:** The `initial_management` token was called the `master` token in versions
prior to 1.11.0

<CodeTabs heading="ACL Configuration in Primary">

```hcl
bootstrap_expect =  3
primary_datacenter =  "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_VALUE"
acl = {
 enabled =  true
 default_policy = "deny"
 down_policy = "deny"
 enable_token_persistence = true
 enable_token_replication = true
 tokens = {
   initial_management =  "ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN"
   agent = "YOUR_ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
  }
}

```

```json
{
  "bootstrap_expect": N,
  "primary_datacenter": "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_VALUE",
  "acl": {
    "enabled": true,
    "default_policy": "deny",
    "down_policy": "deny",
    "enable_token_persistence": true,
    "enable_token_replication": true,
    "tokens": {
      "initial_management": "ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN",
      "agent": "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

~> **Warning:** Note that most enterprise deployments have security requirements that prevent specifying tokens in configuration files.

> Additionally, in the above config `enable_token_persistence` flag is set, so the token is stored to disk in the agent's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `enable_token_persistence` flag is also set in the configuration example so that the token is stored to disk in the agent's
```
Just trying some different wording to see if we can improve clarity; not married to it

`data` directory. Any future changes to the token that are made through the [API](/api/agent#update-acl-tokens) will

> be persisted to the same location, and the value in the config file is ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be persisted to the same location, and the value in the config file will be ignored.
```
I believe the tenses have to agree in this instance

The ACL agent token can also be set using the CLI as shown below.

```
$ consul acl set-agent-token agent "<agent token here>"
```

## Configure Servers in Secondary Datacenters

Servers in secondary data centers must be configured to point to the primary data center

> as shown in the following example. Secondary data centers also need the acl replication token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as shown in the following example. Secondary data centers also need the ACL replication token
```
For consistency; we should only use lowercase and ticks when referring to the command or entity in an interface.

provided to them.

### Create the replication token for ACL Management

Replication tokens are needed for ACL token replication and
to create both [local tokens](/api/acl/tokens#local) and [auth methods](/docs/acl/auth-methods)
in connected secondary datacenters.

> Replication tokens need specific permissions as described below
> 
> - acl = "write" which will allow you to replicate tokens.
> - operator = "write" for replicating proxy-default configuration entries and enabling CA certificate signing in the secondary datacenter.
> - service_prefix, policy = "read" and intentions = "read" for replicating service-default configuration entries, CA, and intention data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replication tokens require the following permissions:

- `acl = "write"`: The permission allows you to replicate tokens.
- `operator = "write"`: This permission enables the `proxy-default` configuration entries to be replicated and enables CA certificate signing in the secondary datacenter.
- `policy = "read"` and `intentions = "read"` in the `service_prefix` field: These permissions enable `service-default` configuration entries, CA, and intention data to be replicated.
```
Used code font to make it clear which words refer to configurations.

<CodeTabs heading = "ACL Configuration in Secondaries">

```hcl
primary_datacenter = "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_NAME"
acl = {
   enabled = true
   default_policy =  "deny"
   down_policy =  "deny"
   tokens = {
      agent =  "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
      replication = "ACL_REPLICATION_TOKEN"
   }
}
```

```json
{
  "primary_datacenter": "PRIMARY_DATACENTER_VALUE",
  "acl": {
    "enabled": true,
    "default_policy": "deny",
    "down_policy": "deny",
    "tokens": {
      "agent": "ACL_AGENT_TOKEN"
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

~> **Warning:** When enabling ACL token replication in secondary datacenters,
global tokens already present in the secondary datacenter will be lost. For
production environments, consider configuring ACL replication in your initial
datacenter bootstrapping process.

## WAN Join Servers

This step is needed for new federated cluster deployments in order for
servers in each federated datacenter to discover each other.

Run the following command from one of the server nodes.

```
$ consul join -token="ACL_MANAGEMENT_TOKEN" -wan [server 1, server 2, ...]
```

## Configure Clients in Secondary Datacenters

> When ACLs are enabled, client agents need a special token known as the `agent token` for ACL
> related operations. Agent tokens need to have the right policies for node related actions including

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When ACLs are enabled, client agents need a special token known as the `agent token` for ACL-related operations. Agent tokens need to have the right policies for node related actions, including
```

registering itself in the catalog, updating node level health checks, and having write access on its
agent configuration file.

### Generate Agent ACL Token

[ACL Node Identities](https://www.consul.io/docs/security/acl/acl-system#acl-node-identities) were introduced
in Consul 1.8.1 and enable creating agent tokens with appropriately scoped policies easily.

To generate the ACL token using node identity, run the following command:

```
$ consul acl token create -node-identity=node-two:dc2
```

### Configure clients to use the ACL agent token

> The client agents should then be updated to contain the token value from the above step. Replace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the client agents to include the token value from the previous step. Replace
```
Just to be more direct
